## Tempesta FW (FrameWork and/or FireWall)


### What it is?

**Tempesta FW** is a hybrid solution that combines reverse proxy and firewall
at the same time. It accelerates Web applications and provide high performance
framework with access to all network layers for running complex network traffic
classification and blocking modules.

**Tempesta FW** is built into Linux TCP/IP stack for better and more stable
performance characteristics in comparison with TCP servers on top of common
Socket API or even kernel sockets.


### Prerequisites

#### Common

* x86-64 CPU with at least 1GB RAM, SSE 4.2 and preferably 2MB huge pages
  enabled (check pse and sse4\_2 flags in your /proc/cpuinfo);
* RSS capable network adapter;
* GNU Make 3.82 or higher;
* GCC and G++ compilers of versions 4.8 or 4.9 (5.0 was not tested);
* Boost library of version 1.53 or higher;

We have tested builds on Linux CentOS 7 and Debian 8.

#### Kernel

Tempesta requires that the following Linux kernel configuration options are
switched on:

* CONFIG\_SECURITY
* CONFIG\_SECURITY\_NETWORK
* CONFIG\_SECURITY\_TEMPESTA
* CONFIG\_DEFAULT\_SECURITY\_TEMPESTA
* CONFIG\_DEFAULT\_SECURITY="tempesta"
* CONFIG\_NETLINK\_MMAP

Tempesta DB user-space library requires netlink mmap defined in standard
headers, so preferably Linux distribution should have native 3.10 kernel.
Currently CentOS 7 is shipped with an appropriate kernel.


### Build

To build the module you need to do the following steps:

1. Patch Linux kernel 3.10.10 with linux-3.10.10.patch or just download
   [an already patched kernel](https://github.com/krizhanovsky/linux-3.10.10-sync_sockets)
2. Build and load the kernel
3. Run make to build Tempesta FW and Tempesta DB modules:

        $ cd tempesta && make

Note that currently Tempesta is built with DEBUG option by default which
produces plenty of debug messages and can hit the system performance
significantly. To disable the option build Tempesta with ```NDEBUG``` option:

        $ NDEBUG=1 make


### Run & Stop

Use `tempesta.sh` script to run and stop Tempesta. The script provides help
information with `--help` switch. Usage example:

        $ ./tempesta.sh --start
        $ ./tempesta.sh --stop


### Configuration

Tempesta is configured via plain-text configuration file.

The file location is determined by the `TFW_CFG_PATH` environment variable:

        $ TFW_CFG_PATH="/opt/tempesta.conf" ./tempesta.sh --start

By default, the `tempesta_fw.conf` from this directory is used.

See `tempesta_fw.conf` for the list of available options and their descriptions.


### Sticky Cookie

**Sticky cookie** is a special HTTP cookie that is generated by Tempesta. It allows for unique identification of each client, and it is part of Tempesta core module.

When used, Tempesta sticky cookie is expected in HTTP requests. Otherwise, Tempesta asks in an HTTP response that sticky cookie is present in HTTP requests from a client. Default behaviour is that Tempesta sticky cookies are not used.

The use and behaviour of Tempesta sticky cookies is controlled by a single configuration option that can have several parameters. The full form of the option and parameters is as follows:
```sticky [name=<COOKIE_NAME>] [enforce];```

`name` parameter specifies a custom Tempesta sticky cookie name `COOKIE_NAME` for use in HTTP requests. It is expected that it is a single word without whitespaces. When not specified explicitly, a default name is used.

`enforce` parameter demands that Tempesta sticky cookie is present in each HTTP request. If it is not present in a request, a client receives HTTP 302 response from Tempesta that redirects the client to the same URI, and prompts that Tempesta sticky cookie is set in requests from the client.


Below are examples of Tempesta sticky cookie option.

* **sticky;**
Enable Tempesta sticky cookie. Default cookie name is used. Tempesta expects that Tempesta sticky cookie is present in each HTTP request. If it is not present, then Tempesta includes `Set-Cookie` header field in an HTTP response, which prompts that Tempesta sticky cookie with default name is set in requests from the client.

* **sticky enforce;**
Enable Tempesta sticky cookie. Default cookie name is used. Tempesta expects that Tempesta sticky cookie is present in each HTTP request. If it is not present, Tempesta sends HTTP 302 response that redirects the client to the same URI and includes `Set-Cookie` header field, which prompts that Tempesta sticky cookie with default name is set in requests from the client.

* **sticky name=`__cookie__`;**
Enable Tempesta sticky cookie. The name of the cookie is `__cookie__`. Tempesta expects that Tempesta sticky cookie is present in each HTTP request. If it is not present, then Tempesta includes `Set-Cookie` header field in an HTTP response, which prompts that Tempesta sticky cookie with the name `__cookie__` is set in requests from the client.

* **sticky name=`__cookie__` enforce;**
Enable Tempesta sticky cookie. The name of the cookie is `__cookie__`. Tempesta expects that Tempesta sticky cookie is present in each HTTP request. If it is not present, Tempesta sends HTTP 302 response that redirects the client to the same URI and includes `Set-Cookie` header field, which prompts that Tempesta sticky cookie with the name `__cookie__` is set in requests from the client.


### Frang

**Frang** is a separate Tempesta module for HTTP DoS and DDoS attacks
prevention. It uses static limiting and checking of ingress HTTP requests.
The main portion of it's logic is at HTTP layer, so it's recomended to use
*ip_block* option (switched on by default) to block malicious users at
IP layer.

Use `-f` command key to start Tempesta with Frang:

        $ ./tempesta.sh -f --start

Frang has a separate section in the configuration file, *"frang_limits"*.
The list of available options:

* **ip_block** - if the option is switched on, then Frang will add IP addresses
		 of clients who reaches the limits to ```filter_db``` table,
		 so that the clients traffic will be dropped much earlier.
		 See also [filter](# Filter) section.

* **request_rate** - maximum number of requests per second from a client;

* **request_burst** - maximum number of requests per fraction of a second;

* **connection_rate** - maximum number of connections per client;

* **connection_burst** - maximum number of connections per fraction of a second;

* **concurrent_connections** - maximum number of concurrent connections per client;

* **client_header_timeout** - maximum time for receiving the whole HTTP message header of incoming request;

* **client_body_timeout** - maximum time between receiving parts of HTTP message body of incoming request;

* **http_uri_len** - maximum length of URI part in a request;

* **http_field_len** - maximum length of a single HTTP header field of incoming request;

* **http_body_len** - maximum length of HTTP message body of incoming request;

* **http_header_chunk_cnt** - limit number of chunks in all header for HTTP request;

* **http_body_chunk_cnt** - limit number of chunks for HTTP request body;

* **http_host_required** - require presence of `Host` header in a request;

* **http_ct_required** - require presence of `Content-Type` header in a request;

* **http_ct_vals** - the list of accepted values for `Content-Type` header;

* **http_methods** - the list of accepted HTTP methods;


### Filter

TODO
